A mathematical model of heart rate response to fluid perturbation

This software code provides a model of heart rate (HR) response to fluid perturbation. The model is built in MATLAB Simulink environment and the goal is to generate the model’s prediction envelope for a test subject. The prediction envelope can be used to evaluate predictive capability performance of the model and show its ability to generate valid virtual HR physiological responses to fluid perturbation for the future non-clinical simulated testing setups to asses physiological closed-loop controlled (PCLC) medical devices. The model, its calibration, and validation analysis are described in [1]. The model is designed to reflect both short-term as well as long-term responses to fluid perturbation. The transient response is the instantaneous change in the HR due to hemorrhage and fluid infusion, while the long-term response refers to the change in the steady-state value of the HR response due to hemorrhage. The model calibration is defined based on the maximum likelihood estimation of its parameters. Also, a compartment-based virtual cohort generation tool defined in [1] is used to simulate virtual subjects and generate a prediction envelope used for model predictive capability performance. The model inputs include hemorrhage, fluid infusion, and urine, and the model outputs HR response.

Disclaimer: This software and documentation (the "Software") were developed at the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) by employees of the Federal Government in the course of their official duties. Pursuant to Title 17, Section 105 of the United States Code, this work is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain. Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of the Software, to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, or sell copies of the Software or derivatives, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so. FDA assumes no responsibility whatsoever for use by other parties of the Software, its source code, documentation or compiled executables, and makes no guarantees, expressed or implied, about its quality, reliability, or any other characteristic. Further, use of this code in no way implies endorsement by the FDA or confers any advantage in regulatory decisions. Although this software can be redistributed and/or modified freely, we ask that any derivative works bear some notice that they are derived from it, and any modified versions bear some notice that they have been modified.

References
[1] Varun Kanal, Pras Pathmanathan, Jin-Oh Hahn, George Kramer, Christopher Scully, and Ramin Bighamian, Development and Validation of a Mathematical Model of Heart Rate Response to Fluid Perturbation, Scientific Reports 12, 21463 (2022).
[2] Abraham Rafie, Paul Rath, Michael Michell, Robert Kirschner, Donald Deyo, Donald Prough, James Grady, George Kramer, Hypotensive Resuscitation of Multiple Hemorrhages using Crystalloid and Colloids, Shock 22, 262-269 (2004).
